Title: Fear of Writing

----

Text:

I've bookmarked more articles and blog posts about overcoming the fear of writing and publishing than I can keep track of. I think a lot about what I might publish, I visualize finished posts complete with thoughtfully chosen and well produced accompanying graphics--complete packages of my idealized output. And then I never create them. “You aren’t going to create the level of creativity, value, or polish you imagined, Colin,” I think to myself. 

{ failure, not measuring up } 

I am my own worst doubter, distractor, critic: perhaps my instincts are wrong and this is a terrible idea; this has already been written about, and by a better writer; you just really aren’t that good of a writer so don’t bother. I set a standard for myself that is not realistic, especially for someone with so little experience writing, packaging, and publishing articles of any kind.

[better transition] 

{ perfectionism }

So do I simply want to write and publish things to impress people? That seems to be all about ego and little good comes of that. But it's true I want to be appreciated, even admired—I have to be completely honest here—so perhaps that's where the images in my head of flawless blog posts come from. Like a well-curated Instagram feed I want my work to appear to have been born fully formed and perfect. 

But perfection is the enemy. As Shobha Rao, author of *Girls Burn Brighter*, said recently in an interview on Creative Mornings podcast: “You don't have to write something perfect. You don't have to write something timeless. You have to write something that befriends one reader." 

The work I appreciate most is raw, vulnerable, and messily honest; it's the essence, the truth, the intentionality that's most important, not the style or surface. I don't need to dazzle with amazing use of language or present incredibly in depth research to create a good piece of writing, just something that gets the idea across, something that starts a conversation, something that documents my thinking and interests at that time. Sure, I can *aspire* to produce works of elevated creative and intellectual quality or feats of superb technical writing or cultural journalism, but I'm not there yet--and may never be. And I really shouldn't let all this stop me from sharing what I have to share.

{ too many ideas / who is my audience? }

I have so many ideas. Ideas for things to make, ideas for how to make things, ideas about what is good and bad in design specifically, and in the world around me in general.

Sometimes I stop and wonder if I should narrow my focus down to a very specific subject or niche; other times I try to imagine the perfect balance of many different interests. Adjacent to design and typography, for instance, I find myself fascinated by maps and information design. Another topic that comes to my mind often while working on web development projects is the amount of energy it takes to power all the websites in the world, and if we could have a less negative impact on the environment by creating more performant web front-ends.

Can I write about all these things? Are the people who care about maps and data visualization the same people who care about server farms killing the planet? I don’t know. I can't concern my self too much with pleasing everyone all the time. In fact, I probably shouldn't concern myself with what other people think too much at all. 

{ purpose / service }

[service, the distraction from ‘self’ by thinking of others] Learning, growing, and sharing with others is an important part of a healthy creative practice. 

”I see this book as my having learned, step by step, how to think and talk about poetry in ways that are my own..." — Mary Rueffle, Introduction to *Madness, Rack, and Honey*

I like this as a way to frame blogging about design on my website; it’s a clear statement of intent that allows for flexibility and experimentation.

The point is to learn and grow, step by step, and in a more public way.

[transition summarizing acknowledging perfectionism, lack of focus, service as purpose - set up for final hurdle:]

{ fear of judgement }

In truth, I'm most afraid of being judged (because I for one judge myself too harshly); I'm afraid of putting myself out there and being judged as a failure. I’m stifled by a fear of writing something that reveals who I really am, and holding it up for the world to see; paralyzed by my own acute humanness. But if fear is really False Evidence Appearing Real, then I must not turn away from some imaginary existential threat that is only in my mind; I can't live there, in my head, without the rest of the world, right here in reality. And to connect, to learn, to grow I'm going to share this with you and hope you gained something from it, however small, that helped you learn or grow. Or, if nothing else, allowed you to get to know me better.

[what I plan to accomplish now?]

Until next time.

----

Date: 2019-09-02 21:50

----

Author:

- ZHFwwqKd

----

Featured: true

----

Tags: 

----

Gallery: 